doc: initial version of security-model-strategy.md (#42709)
nodejs/node: doc/contributing/security-model-strategy.md

# Security Model Strategy

A clear security model, with features like permissions and policy enforcement,
is a
[top technical priority](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/master/doc/contributing/technical-priorities.md#permissionspoliciessecurity-model)
of Node.js.

## High-level approach

* Document the security model
* Document threat models and current state of the art
* Support experimentation on features like permissions and policies
* Add a security component in Node.js certification covering
  the Node.js security model

### Document the security model

The current security model for Node.js is not yet well documented.
At a high level it is:

* Node.js does not provide a sandbox, both the JavaScript and

>   and Native code which is run is trusted to not be malicious.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Native code which is run is trusted to not be malicious.
```

> * The projects works to help code running on top of Node.js to avoid

Author: ```suggestion
* The project works to help code running on top of Node.js to avoid
```

> * The projects works to help code running on top of Node.js to avoid

Reviewer: it has to be 'project works' or 'projects work'

Author: @marsonya thanks, fixed.

  making mistakes, but not doing so is not considered a

>   vulnerability in Node.js. Just be because you can build something

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  vulnerability in Node.js. Just because you can build something
```

  vulnerable with the APIs does not mean there is a vulnerability
  in Node.js itself.

The project has a goal to better document the security model
and this section will be expanded when that happens.

Once the security model is documented the project will work
to add a security component in Node.js certification covering
the Node.js security model.

### Document threat models and current state of the art

> Node.js is used in a number of different use cases and the

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
Node.js is used in several different use cases and the
```

should document the threat models and use that to
help define the security model in the context of each
of these use cases.

This section will be expanded as the use case/threat
models are defined. The initial list includes:

* Server
* Desktop application
* cli
* Single executable application
* CI/CD pipeline components

### Support experimentation on features like permissions and policies

The project is not currently planning to provide supported
sandbox functionality, but wants to support experimentation on
related features like policies and permission enforcement.

Features in this category should:

* be opt-in, and additional overhead when not enabled must be low
* limit change in core to just what is needed to enable experimentation

## Current implementation and assets

Node.js has an experimental implementation of
[policies](https://nodejs.org/docs/latest/api/policy.html#policies).

The core implementation is in:

* [lib/internal/process/policy.js](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/master/lib/internal/process/policy.js)
* [lib/internal/policy](https://github.com/nodejs/node/tree/master/lib/internal/policy)

along with integration into the CJS and ESM loaders in:

> * [internal/modules/esm](https://github.com/nodejs/node/tree/master/lib/internal/modules/esm)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [`lib/internal/modules/esm`](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/HEAD/lib/internal/modules/esm)
```

> * [internal/modules/cjs](https://github.com/nodejs/node/tree/master/lib/internal/modules/cjs)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [`lib/internal/modules/cjs`](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/HEAD/lib/internal/modules/cjs)
```

# Security Model Strategy

A clear security model, with features like permissions and policy enforcement,
is a
[top technical priority](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/master/doc/contributing/technical-priorities.md#permissionspoliciessecurity-model)
of Node.js.

This document provides an overview of our high-level strategy for
making progress as well as information on our current implementations

> as a starting point for contributors.

Reviewer 3: This paragraph can be deleted. The document is short and its contents are obvious from the title (and if not--change the title?).

Author: Done

# Security Model Strategy

> A clear security model and features like permissions and policy enforcement

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A clear security model, with features like permissions and policy enforcement,
```

> has been identified as one of the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
is a
```

> [top technical priorities](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/master/doc/contributing/technical-priorities.md#permissionspoliciessecurity-model)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[top technical priority](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/master/doc/contributing/technical-priorities.md#permissionspoliciessecurity-model)
```

> has been identified as one of the
> [top technical priorities](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/master/doc/contributing/technical-priorities.md#permissionspoliciessecurity-model)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
is a
[top technical priority](https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/master/doc/contributing/technical-priorities.md#permissionspoliciessecurity-model)
```

> for the future success of Node.js.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
of Node.js.
```

Since this document is presumably a permanent thing in the repo, we should not talk about "future success" and things. Either it's a priority for us or it isn't. When the future arrives, it will not stop being a priority, presumably.

> This document provides an overview of our high-level strategy for
> making progress as well as information on our current implementations
> as a starting point for contributors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> This document provides an overview of our high-level strategy for
> making progress as well as information on our current implementations
> as a starting point for contributors.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

## High-level approach

> The high level approach is as follows:
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

* Document the security model
* Document threat models and current state of the art

> * Support experimentation on features like persmission and policies

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Support experimentation on features like permissions and policies
```

> * Add security component in Node.js certification covering
>   Node.js security model

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Add a security component in Node.js certification covering
  the Node.js security model
```

### Document the security model

The current security model for Node.js is not yet well documented.
At a high level it is:

* Node.js does not provide a sandbox, both the JavaScript and
  and Native code which is run is trusted to not be malicious.
* The projects works to help code running on top of Node.js to avoid
  making mistakes, but not doing so is not considered a
  vulnerability in Node.js. Just be because you can build something
  vulnerable with the APIs does not mean there is a vulnerability
  in Node.js itself.

The project has a goal to better document the security model
and this section will be expanded when that happens.

Once the security model is documented the project will work
to add a security component in Node.js certification covering
the Node.js security model.

### Document threat models and current state of the art

Node.js is used in a number of different use cases and the
threats may be different in each use case. The project
should document the threat models and use that to
help define the security model in the context of each
of these use cases.

This section will be expanded as the use case/threat

> models are defined. The iniitial list includes:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
models are defined. The initial list includes:
```

* Server
* Desktop application
* cli
* Single executable application
* CI/CD pipeline components

> ### Support experimentation on features like persmission and policies

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Support experimentation on features like permissions and policies
```

The project is not currently planning to provide supported
sandbox functionality, but wants to support experimentation on
related features like policies and permission enforcement.

Features in this category should:

* be opt-in, and additional overhead when not enabled must be low
* limit change in core to just what is needed to enable experimentation

> ## Current implementaion and assets

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Current implementation and assets
```
